YNU-864: Learn introduction rewrite (v1 mental model) (#152)
layer-3/docs: docs/nitrolite/learn/protocol-flows/architecture.mdx

### Petal 1: My Home Chain (Deposits and Withdrawals)

The **Home Chain** is the blockchain where the user's channel state is enforced for a specific asset.

:::info Important Choice

> When selecting your Home Chain, choose the blockchain where you are comfortable enforcing and withdrawing funds if cooperation with the Node fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When selecting your Home Chain, choose the blockchain where you are most comfortable depositing, enforcing and withdrawing a specific asset if cooperation with the Node fails.
```

Author: Applied the Home Chain wording in [2c41788](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/commit/2c41788c38c77d8bb8cd978b7f9b06e4964a4ee7).

:::

**The Flow:** The user approves the ChannelHub spender, submits a signed home-deposit state, and ChannelHub pulls ERC-20 tokens or native ETH into the home channel. A home-withdrawal state releases funds from ChannelHub back to the user.

---

### Petal 2: Another Chain (Cross-Chain Support)

When a user already has a Home Chain with funds and wants to deposit from a different chain, the protocol uses a two-phase escrow mechanism.

**The Challenge:** The home ledger is authoritative for enforcement, but the user's funds may start on a non-home chain.

> **The Solution:** A signed escrow-deposit initiate state creates a non-home escrow record, and a signed finalize state completes the deposit and updates the home ledger. Cross-chain withdrawals mirror this flow. WAD normalization validates cross-chain amounts when token decimals differ.

Reviewer: "WAD normalization" is used without definition. In DeFi contracts, WAD is a fixed-point convention (1 WAD = 10^18), but readers of this Learn page won't know that -- the definition lives only in protocol/terminology.mdx, which most readers won't have visited yet.

**Suggestion:** Either replace with plain language ("token decimal normalization validates cross-chain amounts when token precisions differ") or add a brief inline gloss: "WAD normalization (token decimal normalisation)".

Author: Replaced the WAD wording with plain token decimal normalization in [2c41788](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/commit/2c41788c38c77d8bb8cd978b7f9b06e4964a4ee7).

**The Solution:** The sender signs a new state showing funds sent through the Node. Nitronode prepares a receive state for the receiver's channel. The receiver signs an acknowledgement to make the pending state mutually signed and enforceable.

**Key Efficiency:** Receive states can be batched before acknowledgement, reducing signature overhead while preserving the enforceable-state boundary.

---

### Petal 4: App Sessions

App sessions are extension states funded by commit transitions from the user's home channel.

**The Mechanism:** A `commit` transition moves assets from the user's home channel ledger into the app session extension. The app session tracks its own state and participant allocations. A `release` transition returns assets from the app session back into the user's channel ledger.

**Security and Risk:**

- Home-channel assets outside app sessions remain recoverable through the latest mutually signed channel state.
- In-session app funds depend on the app-session participants and current extension-layer trust assumptions.
- The protocol roadmap includes stronger extension-layer enforcement and watchtower support.

:::note Current trust boundary

> Do not describe app-session funds as fully on-chain enforced in the current protocol version. The core channel layer is enforceable through ChannelHub; extension-layer security is still improving.

Reviewer: The note reads "Do not describe app-session funds as fully on-chain enforced..." -- this is an instruction to a documentation author, not a statement of fact for a reader. A developer reading this page will be confused about who is being addressed.

**Suggestion:** Rewrite as a factual statement for the reader, e.g. "App-session funds are not fully enforced on-chain in the current protocol version. Core channel assets remain recoverable through ChannelHub; extension-layer enforcement is still evolving."

Author: Rewrote the note as reader-facing trust-boundary text in [2c41788](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/commit/2c41788c38c77d8bb8cd978b7f9b06e4964a4ee7).
